Hi, everyone.
In this letter, we are going to talk about more dumb events.
All right, so the first event that I want to discuss in this lecture is the double click or the double
click.
So this event only fires when the user double clicks on something.
Right.
You might you might have seen in some websites where when you double click and you try to select the
text to copy.
Or when you tried to just selected the website, is not going to allow you to do that.
OK, some very, very like highly improbable.
But it I have I have faced such websites and this is the event for that.
Right.
So what I'm going to do is we are going to grab these two buttons.
And when the user double clicks on the change, VIJI we are going to change the background color on
when the user double clicks, double click, not single click double click on the Reset.
We are going to reset the background color.
All right.
So first off, what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to select our change between.
Right.
And I'm going to select it.
I'm going to say document that query selector.
And what is the class name?
The class name is Change Dash Biji.
Yes.
And I'm going to select the reset button as well.
So in here I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to say reset set.
Now we have successfully selected the button and now what I'm going to do is when the user double clicks
on the.
And the change button, I want to run a function, so the event that we are looking for or we are actually
listening for is Double-Click.
It's written as double click.
Right.
And then we are going to run a callback function.
And what does the callback function is going to do?
It is going to grab the document.
That body it is going to grab the body is going to say that style, that background color.
And we are going to set it to hash eight F.
Si, si, si, oh, a night, and we are not going to print anything to the console because we are going
to see it.
So double click the background.
This change, we could print something to the console for better understanding purposes, understandability
purposes, the change B B, the change big button has been double clicked.
Right.
So let's double click.
And the event has fired the change.
Big button has been double clicked.
And now when the user clicks on the reset, we want to reset the background color.
So we are going to put it right here and we are going to say reset.
Right.
And we are going to change the background color to F F and let's save it.
So double click the change button.
Big button has been double clicked.
The reset button has been double clicked.
Let's capitalize this R and so this is the double click event.
All right.
The next event that I want to talk about is the mouseover event.
So I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to comment these two events out.
But we need these these variables, right?
So let's go ahead and copy that.
Put it right here.
And I don't think we need this much real estate in our Web page, but we do need it in our editor.
So this is way better.
So this one is going to be mouse over.
OK, so the first mouse event is going to be mouse over, and this this is when the user mouse is over
an element and without even clicking, the background should change and we are going to do that.
So we are going to say change B10.
Beating that out of a listener, what is the event that we want to listen for, the event is going to
be mouse over.
All right.
It is so weird, the JavaScript in this part, it is not complicated.
It is not case.
And we are going to run a callback function and we are going to say document that body, basically we
want to do this.
So I'm just going to copy it and I'm going to put it right here.
And now let's let's hover over it and boom, the background color has changed.
We can consider log something as well.
So this has been.
I'm going to say moused over correct sentence, boom.
The change BBT, sorry, the change big button has been moused over.
So this is the mouseover event.
All right.
We can and it doesn't matter how many times and it is going to fire that many times, so we have marched
over that six times, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12.
It doesn't matter how many times.
Right?
So very, very cool.
So this is the mouseover event, we also have the most out event now the mouseover activates when you
hover over that element and the mouse out event activates when you hover away from the element.
All right.
So kind of the same, but actually different.
So I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to copy it down below.
And we are going to change the over with out.
So we are going to come in this one back, and so now if I hover over it, nothing is going to change.
But if I hover away, then the background color is going to change, right.
So in the mouse, I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to add it to the reset.
So it's really, really visible.
What we are doing and this is Fefe and I'm going to keep this commented in as well.
All right.
So when we have her on it, the background color is going to change and it doesn't matter if we hover
away or not.
The background color is change.
We are going to do that one more time.
So hover on the background.
Color has changed, but when we hover on this reset button, the background color does not reset because
it is a mouse out of the mouse should be out of the field.
So when it goes out of the field, David fires.
Right.
So these are very, very cool and handy.
Most events that we have in JavaScript, the next and the final event that I want to talk about in this
lecture is the scroll event and the scroll event happens on something called the window object.
The window object is actually the global JavaScript object object.
It is like the top dog in JavaScript.
All right, so let's go ahead and let's see what we can do with this and for this, we don't need any
we don't need to grab any element because this works when the user scrolls.
OK, this is not like a wheel most real event.
It is a scroll event.
So when the website is scroll, this event is going to fire.
Right.
So for that to work, we need more content.
So for that to work, I'm going to reduce the width of this window and we are going to go ahead and
we are going to add some content here.
So lorem and let's say five hundred seventy.
Wow.
A lot of content.
Right.
So now we have a scroll bar, OK.
And when the scroll bar moves, even by one millimeter, one nanometre, then, then the event is going
to fire when it just moves.
OK, then the event is going to fire, so we are going to say we add this event on the global object,
which is the window object.
So before going there, let's just go ahead and write Window Window here and let's press enter and let's
take a look at the window.
So now you guys can see this is actually an object because the syntax says so.
And in here we have a lot of stuff.
For example, we have alert, which is a global window object.
We have blurr, we have cash chrome and clear intervale.
Clear time out.
Let's take a look and let's look for we have all the events that we have.
So they are global.
They are properties or methods of the global object.
Let's see if we can find some time out.
There it is so said Time Out is actually a method of the global object that we have successfully implemented
in one of our previous lectures.
So we have all these methods and functions, everything there is, there is a lot.
So this is the window object.
A cool thing right in JavaScript.
So let's go ahead and let's grab the window and we are going to paint a method to the window object.
And this method is going to is an event, the center, which is going to listen for a scroll event.
And when the scroll event happens, we are going to run a callback function.
And when the callback function runs, what do we want to do?
We want to grab the document, that body.
Right.
And I could consider log document that body for you in here.
And we are going to say body C, so whenever you do document that body, you're going to get the body
element of your e-mail document and everything is inside the body.
So you could do that as well.
If you want to check if this selector works, you could do that.
I guess not.
Guess we did it so.
Style, dot, background, background, color.
I'm just going to say line.
Line, right?
So when the user scrolls, I want to increase the line height to two point one very, very large value
and I'm going to say, you know, this is enough.
So now we have.
Oops.
Well, I wanted to be a surprise, and this is not a surprise.
Because we are there, let's reset.
Yep.
So if I bring this down and if I just remove the scroll bar, but even like one millimeter, then the
event fires and the line hydra has increased, we can do something else as well.
Let's just put it to blue.
And we can say the background color is going to be blue and the color of the text is going to be white.
Let's put it to white, let's say so now when we come here, everything has changed.
So this was the final event that I wanted to work with in this lecture.
I'm just going to demonstrate that one more time.
See, this happens and see you guys in the next lecture where we I think we'll we will talk even more
about dumb events.